# Template for RayLib library using CMake in VSCode
---
title: Template for RayLib library using CMake in VSCode
author: Fengyi Liu
date: 2024-12-24
---
Github: [https://github.com/lucasliu2019/RayLib-template-with-CMake-and-VSCode](https://github.com/lucasliu2019/RayLib-template-with-CMake-and-VSCode).

This template uses VSCode for the Raylib library in C/C++, the compilation is done using CMake.


## Requirement
Required tools:
- CMake (to create makefiles and import library)
- VSCode

Required library:
- Raylib (for GUIs)

### Installation and setup of Raylib
For Linux, we use the brew command to install the raylib library. 
```sh
brew install raylib 
```

Note, we could directly compile the raylib libary source code from the github repository [https://github.com/raysan5/raylib](https://github.com/raysan5/raylib).

### installation and setup of VSCode
For VSCode, we will install the extension called CMake Tools. This extension will help use to comiple the source code using CMake according to the setups in "CMakeLists.txt".


## Compile the code
Note that VSCode is optional, you could directly use CMake. To use VSCode, we first open the folder of the project, the file organization is shown in the next Section "File Structure". Once the folder is open in VSCode, click the CMake extension. Next, we click "Delete Cache and Reconfiguration" icon beside the "PROJECT STSTUS" tab. Once it is successfully built, we can run/compile our project in the "PROJECT OUTLINE" tab. Find the executable 'myGame' and then right click to run/debug. 

We can change the compiled project name by changing 'myGame' to the desired project name in the 2nd line in CMakeLists.txt
```
project(myGame)
```

## File structure
The structure of the files is organized in the following way:
```
project
│   README.md
│   CMakeLists.txt    
│
└───src
│   │   main.cpp
│   │   ...
│   
└───build (generated by CMake)
    │   ...
    │
```

Initially, there is no build folder, and it is generated by CMake. The executable file is located in the build folder in the project folder once the file is compiled succesfully.
